[MUSIC]
>> Scott: It's a lot of things going on
with the router inside
of Angular 2 right now.
And so far, it's decent.
It's definitely getting there.
It's not as full featured as
most router implementations
on different other frameworks,
but it's getting there.
So some of the components as far
as what the router provides,
it pretty much provides three
different types of things.
We have directives that we use for
the routing to make dynamic links.
We have services that we use
inside of our components to
do routing inside of our components.
And then we have decorators
to config our routing.
So those are the three
parts of the router.
>> Scott: So, like I said,
the three things the router providers,
the route directives, and
then the routeconfig decorator.
So before we get started with routing is
if you're not familiar with client-side
routing, then the way it works,
it uses HTML5 pushState, which
is pretty much just like a stack in your
browser of what the current state is and
what to do for the layout for
that state, what's part of that state.
So it's using that,
which means we have to use the base href.
And this is because Angular 2 doesn't
support legacy browsers anymore,
which fall back to the hashtag
implementation URL.
So we don't do that any more because
Angular 2 doesn't support legacy browser.
So we're only going to do pushState.
Angular 1 gave you the option,
you could put HTML5 mode or not.
Note, this is always gonna be HTML5 mode.
At least for now, with this router.
Cuz I don't think they plan on
supporting any legacy browsers,
only Evergreen browsers.
So because of that,
you gotta do two things.
One, on your server side, you need to
make sure that you're catching this,
because your client side routes are gonna
look exactly like your server routes.
So, that way, your server's gonna be
trying to do something, and it's not
geared to server static assets because
you had it set up for legacy browsers.
You need to make sure you're
redirecting back to the index.html page
on any other routes that
anybody hits on your server.
And also, the base href which,
by default, I think does this.
But you need to set it anyway to resolve
the relative URLs for the routing, and
also static assets.
So definitely do that in
the head of your html.
So, setting up the configuration is,
it's pretty much handled
by the decorator function.
You'll see, it's pretty simple.
And then the router outlet, that's like
the equivalent of ngView with a UI router
and ui-view, or ngView with a Angular
router and ui-view with a UI router.
It's pretty much the equivalent
with some small differences
that we'll discover really soon.
But it does,
it's supposed to do the same thing
conceptually.
>> Scott: So
here's a little example of using
the route config decorator that we
used to decorate our
component with our routing.
So, it would make sense to start
at the highest level component
possible to set up your routing,
at least for now.
That's the pattern that
we're gonna be using.
And then as we get into child routing,
you'll setup that routing there for
that top level component.
So it's pretty simple.
RouteConfig takes an array of
objects with a path, a name,
a component, and
then an optional use default.
So the path is actually the URL.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: I might be getting of us,
but is there, do we have the route
result functionality we had in Angular 1
where we could resolve a premise?
>> Scott: So, they moved that over to
life cycle hooks on the router.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Scott: So you,
just like you have life cycle
hooks on the component on and nit,
you can actually use life cycle
hooks provided by the router
to decorate your component
to say can't activate.
And then, can activate takes the next
component and a previous component and
it can handle any asynchronous operation.
And if you return true, it'll go.
If you return false, it won't.
>> Speaker 2: All right.
>> Scott: Yeah.
>> Scott: So yeah, path, name, component.
So that, the way this works,
the path is obviously the URL here,
we'll get more into that.
The name is just a unique name for
your route.
And we're using named routes here, so
we don't have to remember the paths
when we navigate to them.
We can just refer to the names.
So the name should be unique.
And then the component, obviously,
is the component you want to
load up when that route is hit.
And then optional useAsDefault is
what's gonna be the default route for
this top level component.
So if we just render the page,
it's just gonna be the, what component am
I gonna show when I initially go here?
So it's the initial,
it's the index component.
>> Scott: And
again, to instruct the router where
to place the component in the parent
component that it's being rendered in,
you need to use the router-outlet.
So, one small nuance about this that
we found out, maybe it's not a nuance,
it's in the docs, so
I guess it's not a nuance.
But it's different than ngView view and
ui-view.
Where as those router implementations
will drop your component or
your template inside this
RouterOutlet directive as a child,
Angular 2's router will drop
it underneath it as a sibling.
So that might not seem like a big
difference, but it's actually kinda hard
to style the component that's being
rendered if you can't access it.
So, it's kind of tough there.
We ran into that.
>> Speaker 3: 30 minutes of our life gone.
Never to get back once
we realized what was
happening.
>> Speaker 4: You wasted more
than that on
>> Scott: [LAUGH] All right.
So, navigating the route.
There's a couple different
ways that we can do it.
There's probably gonna be one or
two ways you're gonna be doing it.
One is gonna be the templates
using the router link directive
here.
>> Scott: So
the router link directive is provided for
us through the route providers and
the route directives, and
it pretty much just adds
functionality to your anchor tags
that are aware of your route name.
So the way it works is you
just pass in an array,
and that array has the name of
the route that you want to navigate to.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Back when you were
talking about the route config,
if you don't say which one is the default,
does it just assume that the first
one will list [CROSSTALK]
>> Scott: No, no it won't load
anything.
>> Speaker 5: [CROSSTALK]
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Speaker 2: I don't know what to do.
>> Scott: Yeah, so
your router link is a directive.
You can decorate anchor tags and
other things, and
then pass in the name of the component
that you wanna navigate to as an array.
Why is it an array?
Implementation detail, not sure.
>> Scott: So, to navigate
through your component through JavaScript,
you can inject the router service.
And that router service has a method on it
called navigate which also takes the name
of the component that
you want to navigate to.
And you can navigate that way.
So after promise, after this,
after that, boom,
navigate.
>> Scott: Any questions on this stuff?
Pretty simple, right?
So, here's an example of the directives,
the router link directives.
So, here
>> Scott: actually,
would that even work with
the forward slash in front of it?
I guess that does work.
But you don't have to put
the forward slash in front of it,
you just need the name of the component.
So this is, right here where it says
router link, and then its value
set to home, about, and experience,
you don't need the forward slash there.
It's just the name of the component,
and it'll work.
This is not, though,
the path that are you want to navigate to.
It's the name of the component you would
navigate to, which was declared here.
So wherever you put name,
that's the name that you put there.
So you don't need the forward slash.
>> Scott: And
that's router link.
>> Scott: And then,
to use the router service, you inject it
into the component that you wanna use, and
then, again,
you just call it navigate, and
you pass in the same argument would
have passed into router link.
An array with the string of the route
that you want to navigate to.
>> Speaker 5: [CROSSTALK]
>> Speaker 2: That would be,
you wouldn't need that,
actually, really, would you,
if you had that used as default?
>> Scott: Well, this is for more,
well, this is a trivial example.
This would be for
more like you have like dynamic routes,
when we get to parameters and stuff-
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, but
I'm saying, for the app-
>> Scott: Right-
>> Speaker 2: Sort of-
>> Scott: Yes, exactly.
You wouldn't need that.
>> Scott: Again,
you don't need the forward slash here,
either.
You can just put the name
of the component.
>> Speaker 3: I think it says navigate
by URL underneath it as well.
>> Scott: Yeah, navigate by URL would be
the one if you know the exact URL.
>> Scott: So,
query parameters and parameters.
Obviously, we need these.
It wouldn't be a really good routing
implementation if we didn't have this
deep linking.
So, again, just like any other parameter
type on any type of routing system,
it's optional parameters
that we can add using
the same syntax you would use
on any other routing platform.
The way you get access to it, though,
is gonna be with the route, or
actually I think that's on the next slide,
so we'll get there.
So, in the router link, when you navigate,
the reason that it's an array there is
because you can pass in a second argument,
which is the parameters you
wanna attach to that navigation.
So, for instance,
right here we define a path for,
I think it's supposed to be
a semicolon there, or for users.
And it should have an ID on it.
This one doesn't have an ID on it.
But should have an ID on it.
And then, on the router link we're just
saying, hey, we wanna to navigate to
the user's component with an id of 7,
which would attach it to the URL, which
we could then grab once that component is
mounted, and do whatever we want with it.
Grab the current user with that ID.
>> Scott: And we would do that accessing,
using the RouteParams service.
>> Scott: So, again,
router link, navigating to your component,
optional parameters object there,
that's gonna attach to the URL path
that you setup in your route config.
So, we're passing in this
object that says ID one,
that means in this component's parent
where the routeConfig is set up,
in that path we have a parameter that
says ID so it can match up with it.
That object's properties must match
up with the parameters that we
define on the path of this route.
If that sounds confusing,
you'll see it in an example.
>> Scott: And then, again,
how you get access to those parameters.
Using the routeParams service from Angular
2, inject that into our component.
And now we have routeParams which has
a method called get, which takes a key
of the parameter that you want to access,
and it just returns it.